I'm Vicki MacDonald and I am in Holy Trinity Church, Fandedno, during the
longest yarn and I have Margaret Nightingale with me who was a child
during the war and is going to share some of her memories and some of the
memories of her father as well. Thank you Margaret. So do you want to start with
how it was being a child during the war, how old you were? Yeah well I was born in
1937 so I'd be about seven, wasn't I? Yes. And I remember, I can remember my father
coming home in the auxiliary fireman's uniform when he did his duty there.
You mentioned the RAF? Yes. Yeah he did want to go in the RAF and was accepted
but because he worked on munition for Avros in Manchester and they wouldn't
release him so to do his bit for his country he joined the
auxiliary fire service and I do remember him coming home and the uniform
when he'd been on duty with them but I also remember going into there was a
shelter down the middle of the street, a concrete shelter and soon as the air raid
went off we all had to run into the, our parents would carry us and get us
into the shelter and it used to be frightening. Did you feel safe in the shelter?
Did you hear the bombs falling around you? Was it that close? Yeah I think
you could a bit you know you were nervous when you heard the
bombs going you know and you were sort of nervous but once you got into the
shelter all the neighbours were there together so it eased it a bit you know
but there was that little bit of fear as a child. So did you have a gas mask?
Yes we did we had gas masks and we had to put those on. Were they horrible?
You just got used to them you know yeah so I had to put a gas mask on. What about things
like not eating maybe an orange until after the war or bananas? Were they, was
that a surprise at the end of the war to find all these fruits that you could
suddenly eat? Yeah yeah you know you couldn't get anything could you? There were no
sweets everything was on rationing and it was very rare you can get sweets.
And fruit? Yeah it was just, it seemed to be a shortage of everything and I don't
think we knew what a banana looked like. So did your mum look after you? Did she
do any other work for the war? Did she do war effort? She worked all her married
life but I can't remember what she did when we were kiddies in the war. She
perhaps looked after you. She probably took time off you know probably yeah. That's lovely thank you.
Yeah my younger sister, well Carol was, she was the youngest so I'm trying to
think if the war was still on. I'm like, oh Carol was born. So when you were children in
school you had a saying didn't you? So it's a bit naughty because it's children's
talk but would you like to repeat it? Do you think a short term would be offensive in this day and age?
Well it was then wasn't it and we can cut it out if it is. Yeah. So what did you all say to each other?
We were to say to each other if you see a man with a square head run away because it's a German.